Ideation phase
The main aim is to develop a system for continuous monitoring of river water quality at remote places using wireless sensor 
networks with low power consumption, low-cost and high detection accuracy. pH, conductivity, turbidity level, etc. are the
 limits that are analyzed to improve the water quality. Following are the aims of idea implementation
                (a) To measure water parameters such as pH, dissolved oxygen, turbidity, conductivity, etc. using available sensors
                     at a remote place.
 
                (b) To assemble data from various sensor nodes and send it to the base station by the wireless channel.
 
	(c) To simulate and evaluate quality parameters for quality control. 

	(d) To send SMS to an authorized person routinely when water quality detected does not match the preset
	     standards, so that, necessary actions can be taken. 
 
 
Control surface: 
		
		An Arduino mega is utilized as a core person. The Arduino victimized here is mega 2560 because 
multiple analog sign sensors probe requisite to be conterminous with the Arduino inhabit. It has a set of registers that use 
as a solon use RAM. Specific intend to know registers for on-chip component resources are also mapped into the 
assemblage grapheme.The addressability of store varies depending on instrumentation series and all PIC devices someone 
several banking mechanisms to utilise addressing to additional faculty. 

		Subsequent series of devices have move instructions which can covert move had to be achieved via the
 register. Thus the mechanism functions with the exploit of coding intrinsically in the Arduino UNO R3 skate. 

pH sensor:

		The pH of thing is a useful constant to display because graduate and low pH levels can hump large 
effects on the author. The pH of a statement can grasp from 1 to 14. A pH sensor is an instrumentation that measures the
hydrogen-ion density in a bleach, indicating its tartness or alkalinity. Its constitute varies from 0 to 14 pH. Uttermost pH values
also process the solubility of elements and compounds making them cyanogenetic. Mathematically pH is referred as, 
					pH = -log [H+].  

Turbidity sensor:
  
		Turbidity train sensor is victimised to measure the clarity of element or muddiness utter in the water. 
The muddiness of the open cut food is ordinarily between 255 NTU. Irrigate is visibly at levels above 80 NTU. The standards
for intemperance liquid is 130 NTU to 250 NTU. The turbidity device consists of soft sender and acquirer, the transmitter 
needs to transmit unsubtle bright, it is said to be turbid. The consequence of turbidity is a reduction in water clarity, 
aesthetically unpleasant, decreases the rate of photosynthesis, increases water temperature.  

Temperature sensor:
  
                               Here DS18B20 is old as the temperature device. Usually, its present use to perceive the temperature of
the life, if we site the device wrong the conductor electrode and placed into the H2O, it can discover the temperature of H2O
also. The normal temperature of the people is (25 -30)°C. 

LCD display:  

		LCD (Liquid Crystal Display) impede is a flat brace electronic exhibit power and finds in a countywide 
orbit of applications. A 16x2 LCD demo is the really fundamental power and is rattling commonly victimised in varied devices
and circuits. These modules are desirable over heptad segments and otherwise multi-segment LEDs.

Wi-Fi module:
 
		Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi is a subject for wireless localized area scheme with devices. Devices that can use Wi-Fi
 study permit private computers, video-game consoles, smartphones, digital cameras, paper computers, digital frequency
 players and ultramodern printers. Wi-Fi matched devices can insert to the Cyberspace via a LAN web and wireless make a 
bushel. Much a reach quantity (or point) has a capableness of around 20 meters (66 feet) indoors and a greater compass 
outdoors. Wi-Fi subject may be utilised to render the Internet reach to devices that are within the capability of a wireless 
meshwork that is connected to the Internet.

Software design:
 
           The proposed water quality monitoring system based on WSN can be divided into three parts: 
				• IoT platform
				• Neural network models in Big Data Analytics and water quality management 
				• Real-time monitoring of water quality by using IoT integrated Big Data Analytics

IoT Platform  :

		The quality parameters are labeled datasets including desired outputs of specific combination of inputs.
The neural network will produce output to classify water quality as dangerous, be careful, and good. The classification layer
 will run on top of Hadoop cluster. The advantages of using neural network based analytics are like Artificial Neural Networks
 (ANNs) are good in learning and modeling non-linear relationships, and high volatile data. Though neural networks are 
prone to over fitting, the neural network model used in water quality monitoring system is not complex enough to cause over
 fitting problem. Also, there are many countermeasures to avoid over fitting.

		 Also, computation overload is not going to delay the response of system as there are only a few water 
quality parameters.

Neural network models in Big Data Analytics and water quality management: 

		The use of artificial neural networks for the prediction of water quality parameters has already been 
investigated long before . Multi-layer neural network model is depicted below having five inputs In 1, In 2, In 3, In 4, In 5
in input layer, a hidden layer with four neurons and three neurons in output layer. There are two bias input neuron connected
 to hidden layer neurons and output layer neurons. 
		In the neural network model 5 inputs can be pH value, temperature, turbidity, ORP, and conductivity 
and 3 outputs will be dangerous, be careful, and good. Before training the neural network model few other parameters need
 to be set; as for example: Learning rate = 0.01, Learning algorithm = Back Propagation, Bias input = 1, 
Connection weights = randomly assigned, Activation function = sigmoid function. The output of sigmoid function neuron with
 inputs: Xj, weights: Wj and bias b is :
 					F(X) = 1 / (1 + exp (−∑jwjxj−b)) 
 
Real-time monitoring of water quality by using IoT integrated Big Data Analytics:
 
		IoT devices use various types of sensors to collect data about turbidity, ORP, temperature, pH, 
conductivity, etc. of river water continuously. Also, IoT devices have capability to stream the array of collected data wirelessly
 to the remote Data Aggregator Server in the cloud. Moreover, the volume of semi structured data increases with time in such
 a velocity that only the Big Data Analytics applications can efficiently store and analyze the data constantly .  The system 
should be reliable and scalable. So, data management layer will be deployed and operational on the Apache Hadoop cluster.

		Hadoop helps distributed storing and processing of big data across cluster of computers. Also, such
 operational environment is horizontally scalable i.e. nodes or computers can be added to a cluster later while volume and 
velocity of data streaming will be increasing. Hadoop cluster is fault tolerant as jobs are redirected automatically to the
 running nodes when nodes are failed. The data in Hadoop is highly available as multiple copies of data are stored in data 
nodes managed by name node, standby name node, journal nodes and failover controller.

		  IoT applications need high speed of read/write of data and highly available data in the database. So, 
the system will use Apache HBase NoSQL database to store big data as HBase runs on top of Hadoop . Hence, the data is 
distributed across Hadoop distributed file system (HDFS) . Besides, HBase is capable of executing real-time queries as 
well as batch processing. High-availability of data is provided by the HBase as it is stored in HDFS.   Hadoop clusters are 
spanning over many servers which are managed by Apache ZooKeeper. 

		Such centralized management of the cluster is required to provide cross-node synchronization services
and configuration management. Applications can create znode (a file which persists the state of the cluster in the memory) 
in zookeeper. Nodes will register to znode to synchronize task executions across the cluster by sharing and updating status 
changes in nodes through the use of zookeeper znode. Apache HBase is managed by Apache ZooKeeper.  

		The IoT application will help the users to visualize the water quality analysis results produced by the 
data management layer over different time series continuously. The data visualization application runs on client devices such 
as Smart phones, laptops and desktops. The root users will be able to generate daily/monthly/yearly water quality report from
data management layer and visualize in the client devices. 
 
 